---
title:  "IDEA: "Sweat Out Your Toxins""
subtitle: "Bet you $100 someone has told you it's good for you"
author: "Valeria"
avatar: "img/val.jpg"
image: "img/backbend.jpg"
date:   2017-09-01 12:12:12
---

# :(

I feel like I should preface this with the fact that I'm a huge yoga fan. I've been practicing for nearly a decade and love it. 

Also I feel like I should mention that true yoga actually has 8 practices to it: Yama, Niyama, <strong>Asana</strong>, Pranayama, Pratyahara, Dharana, Dhyana, and Samadhi. What most people think of when they think 'yoga' is actually the Asana practice. This is the physical postures (think: downward dog). A few people might have even heard of Pranayama, which is the breathing practice of yoga. [Here's](https://www.yogajournal.com/practice/the-eight-limbs) a great explanation of all the 8 practices.

Anyways, I've done a lot of yoga retreats all around the world, ranging from very legit to very whitewashed, and the thing they all have in common is that there will always be someone who tells you to 'sweat out your toxins'.

This makes me cringe everytime I hear it. I always have to fight the urge to be that smart ass that ruins the zen feelings with an "Actually, that's not how biology works". But at the same time, it's wrong. 

For the record, your body does not sweat out or breathe out toxins. Your liver, kidney and digestive tract processes them. Does that mean sweating or yoga isn't healthy? Of course not. But it's incorrect to claim that you can sweat (or breathe out) chemical toxins.

99.9999% of what you sweat out is water and electrolytes. Which makes sense. Your sweat is liquid and it tastes salty. When was the last time you tasted iron or mercury on your face after a hard cardio workout? <i> Sure sure, I know you don't normally taste your face after a workout, but you get the point. </i>

Now, if by 'toxins' you're referring to psycological ones (...which are still results of chemical interactions, but that's getting too technical), sure, it works. Meditating, yoga and breathing techniques honestly feel like magic. 

But you can't 'sweat out' a toxic night of vodka shots, or 10 years of chain smoking or any of the other plethora of terrifying chemicals we put into our bodies thanks to FDA negligence in regulating massive industries. 

If we're going to get very techinical, you actually can sweat out a miniscule amount of heavy metals. One of my favorite analogies for this comes from a [New York Times article](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/18/well/live/can-you-sweat-out-toxins.html?mcubz=1) that actually broke down this entire issue:

"Dr. Schwarcz compared it to someone sitting in a bathtub worrying about drowning. Removing a dropper-full of water from the tub will theoretically reduce the risk — because the chance of drowning is lower in less water — but getting rid of so little water will be effectively meaningless."


*[Photo: Angel's Landing at Zion National Park]*